The Joe Rogan experience. So you.
You first get on television,
you first do these six and then your magic evolves and your magic
goes from being just magic to some of the more insane things you've done.
Like standing in a block of ice for how long did you do it for 78, 63 hours?
Cause.
I'm always late. So I showed up late. So I missed like,
what are the length of time I was supposed to do? So that's all,
but I'm always late. I made it here on time though. Didn't I? You were early.
Yeah. Yeah. Perfect. But bro,
I rode the motorcycle here and was flying because I had to,
I wanted to be on time.
So I flew. Yeah. Um, the, the ice thing. Why,
what made you decide to stand in a block of ice for 60 plus hours? I'll.
Tell you that. So you were saying, how do you go from the.
Magic tricks to the extreme physical endurance and so studying.
Houdini and all that stuff.
And then there's a poster of Houdini that I loved where he was. It was,
he was buried alive, but he never did the stunt. He died before he got to duke,
but he was going to be buried alive, underground in a coffin. So I stare at,
I love that poster since I was a kid. It's like in a magic books,
you see that poster in any way. So bill again,
the guy told you about bill collusion comes up to me and he's like,
what about this? And he shows me an image of a,
in the insecure that was buried alive for a month. He was like,
what if you pretend to be buried alive in central park,
we'll sneak you out and you'll come back a month later. And I was like,
I always wanted to do like Houdini, like things, but I never want to copy,
but that one he never did. So I was kind of like, well, that's interesting,
but what if instead of doing it the way he did it, what if I did it?
And everybody could see that I was buried alive.
So what if I was really just buried alive? Like, it can't be that hard.
He's like, yeah, you can't do that. And I was staying at his place.
So we got a coffin from Queens. We're actually dealing, was buried.
I bought a cough when we brought it back to his house and then I would just
practice sleeping in the coffin then suddenly I know.
But then suddenly I realize you don't eat food.
And then if you have a little thing to go to bathroom, I did four days,
like nothing. So I'm like, okay, I can do a week. And that was it. And then,
then I pushed the idea of doing the bird alive and convince people to let me do
it publicly.
And what's funny is like firemen and stuff like would come to the stunt in the
middle of a bite and they would shine like holograms at me and their lights and
stuff and they, oh, that's the ice. But,
and then they would assume that I wasn't actually in there. Okay. So here,
so back to this one. Well, well.
Let's go, boom, but let's, let's not jump around. So the buried alive thing,
where did you do it physically? Um, that was in New York.
City on the west side. Uh, Trump had like this,
a bunch of properties that he was developing and I was like, uh,
I want to be buried alive on one of your properties. Is that possible?
He's like, sure.
He just sent me his driver and I went around and that's where I did my first
thought. And it was, how could they see you though? And then Jimmy MetAware,
who I do, who liked? Yeah. So it was see-through but right.
And then we put six tons of water on top of it. So that's basically, and then,
so it was there. Well, there was hall. See those two big holes.
So the oxygen was being, see the holes above my head.
So the air was being blown in and out,
but it's pretty straightforward like that. One's not, to me,
not that impressive. Like if I said to you, you just laid there for a week.
Yeah. But you know what? The heart is the hard part. I mean,
short body and the lose weight. And I was like, but the hard part of it is, um,
th and you wouldn't, you would never anticipate this being the hard part,
but if you're not used to like peeing while standing in front of lots of people
staring at you, it's actually really hard. So, so I'd be burned alive.
And I had to truckers to bond and all that stuff,
which is like a column with a catheter or whatever. And, um,
and people are there the whole time. Like it suddenly became like an event.
So there was never like, and I was, they were like, oh, we'll cover it.
So no one can see. I'm like, no.
Then people are going to think I'm sneaking in and out. So I had to learn.
So I would close my eyes.
Like when you were a kid sleeping at you'd have those dreams,
I'd have batches of it. It would take me hours. I'd finally be able to pee.
Right. But that, and by the way, I didn't eat for a few weeks before,
so I had no food. So that was the other, wasn't an issue. But, um,
what happened by midway through the stunt people I'd be waving and smiling and
like pee. And it was like nothing, you know,
but these are things that you don't consider when you're practicing in your
often in your house.
You didn't eat for how long? Two weeks before. Yeah.
But I was always into fasting. I read Sid Arthur as a kid,
and I had done like a, a week with just water and, you know, new, all the new,
the body's really good.
So you were comfortable with the fact that you were able to fast and that,
that wouldn't be an issue.
And you were comfortable with the fact that you were getting air and where are
you drinking water from? How are you getting water?
A little bit of water in there that I could suck through a thing like that.
And that was fine. It was like, it was enough.
How much water do you think you drank over the week that you were in there?
Uh, I don't know. They always say it was like just a little bit,
but it was a good amount. Was like, uh, I dunno, probably
probably three liters a day or something.
They say he did tablespoons a lot, but no, it was, it was,
it was like a normal amount. So, and then by the way,
I did 44 days with nothing but water and I did nothing but pure H two O so it's
not even like it had minerals in it and body was full recovery.
And my starvation expert, who's like one of the top guys in the world in London,
my doctor at the end thought that I was cheating. So they put me on an ice.
Filled water. So it was a company called.
H two O and their things it's just pure.
Yeah. This exact tilt. Right, right. Which.
Which is irrelevant by the way. But,
so I had nothing but pure H2O for 44 days
lost 60 pounds.
BMI bone mass index dropped 33%.
That's what I was getting at. No, no, it was bad.
No, it wasn't good. Yeah. It wasn't.
But doctor thought I was cheating because he's an addition, by the way,
my friends that were with me that are, you know, magicians and the guy building,
they're like, you need to take these vitamins.
And they hand me a handful of sugary vitamins. And I'm like, no,
it's just because I, if I'm going to do it, I want to like, actually do it.
Right. Right. And, um, if I would have taken those vitamins,
I feel like my metabolism wouldn't have gone into starvation and I might've had
irreversible damage from it. So the fact that I actually did it,
I went into starvation mode and the body protects itself. That's interesting.
What I was saying is the starvation expert that now I have a paper published in
the new England journal medicine with them, which I'm pretty proud of it. But,
um, he, he didn't believe me.
So he put me on an IV and right away the phosphate levels reacted.
And I almost went into shock.
So I almost actually did die when they refit fed me.
So his papers called the refeeding syndrome. They say like after world war two,
when they rescued the, from the, from the camps, uh,
the Jews and everybody was starving, the camps. And they,
a lot of soldiers gave them like candy bars and stuff.
And all of a sudden their systems went into shock and they died from not being
re fed the right way.
So what is the correct way to refeed someone, if they have any slowly.
Bring them back so that you don't have what happened to me,
which is phosphate levels go all crazy and very small amounts of food. Yeah.
But then two days later, I,
somebody sent me a trunk from Harrods full of food in low bird,
like a Fred at the, and I was giving it to all the nurses and doctors.
Cause I knew I shouldn't eat it. And I was trying to do it right then,
like in the middle of, at night,
I woke up and had like a bag of potato chips and then, um,
a bagel and I was right. It was like the most,
I also didn't go to the bathroom for a month and a half.
But think about that. So.
It take you to recover from one of these things.
That one, I feel like I never fully recovered from, but
I had an, I wouldn't recommend anybody does that like goes like super,
super long with no food. But, but by the way, so.
The recovery, you don't think he ever recovered.
My, my body always goes like this now. It's always confused. When I like train,
I go up down really quick, really easy. And it was since that.
Your body freaked out because.
I feel like that, but there's no way to prove that. But, um.
That's a common thing though, with people cut weight for fights. Really? Yeah.
They, they get to a certain point when they have kidney failure and yeah.
And then their body.
Exactly. That's what happened to me. And I keep having problems with my kidneys.
Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And I have a spot on my kidney right now. Yeah,
yeah.
Yeah. Wow. That's a, that's a real common one with guys. Uh, Daniel Cormier.
I actually had to drop out of the Olympics because of that.
I didn't know his kidneys failed. Yeah. Kidney failure is a big one with, uh,
fighters, kidney stones too. For a lot of guys. Who've cut. Wait. So your,
that was probably in your opinion,
the one that damaged you the most or left the most residual. So.
The most difficult one was the ice by far the,
the ice was a monster. And the reason why was because,
and now there's also something great about it. So it was a warm November.
So the air coming through was like, you know,
it happened to be a 68 degree three-day spread,
which led to the ice,
keep dripping the cold on me and it's radiating this way,
but I'm also standing up in one spot completely still, you can't sleep.
Cause if you fall asleep and the present to ice, you get frostbite,
you have to cut your skin off. Right.
So I'm staying completely awake the entire time.
And it's a difficult situation on our 55. Exactly.
Are I look back at all of it.
And my friends knew my eyes just go out and I'm now hallucinating.
Like you could never,
ever no hallucinogenic drug will ever give you those kinds of
hallucinations. And what was it at? First of all, it's amazing.
But it's also when it goes into that nightmare part, it's scary.
But there's also that amazing part of it.
And if you have people are after that stunt, now,
whenever I hallucinate on stunts, I have friends there that I say,
I'm going to start hallucinating, just talk me through it.
But so here's when I started realizing that I was hallucinating because you
don't know when you are. Right. Um, and by the way,
the one stunt than ever did was sleep deprivation. If you remind me,
I'll explain that whole thing, but I w I'll forget. But so, um,
so what happens is when I started realizing it is I need to know, uh,
like what time it is. Cause I'm done at 10:00 PM. Cause it was live on ABC.
So I'm like, I need to know how much longer I got to go through this. Like,
because it's getting tough. So in it's there, the glass, by the way,
and my doorman would come and like news or whatever Fox news said,
David Blaine, um, is not really the, I, they did a special on it an hour long,
special on Fox saying that I was never in the ice.
And I had a double of me that was at the ice. I'm switching up and bound with
burgers.
And reading. Yeah. No Fox.
TV station. Yeah. Yeah. So they did,
but they did a one hour special that I was never in there. So my dorm,
they get away with doing that. I don't know. I don't care.
But listen to my dorm, my dorm man, who comes to this is the funny part though.
So my door man, that comes to see me, he he's, um,
he knows me so well and he was buried alive and he's so nice. Right.
So he comes to visit me in New York and um, he,
he walks up to the ice and he sees me and he's looking at me all weird.
I wasn't hallucinating it. So it came at me all weird. Then he leaves it there.
But I go back, I was like, what's up? He's like
that. Are you sure that that was you and nice. Could that have been you?
I was like, what do you mean? He's like, okay, well it's, you know, so he,
we go on that special airs now he's convinced that it wasn't me.
And I.
And especially as why you're still going to know that's after.
But he already thinks.
Because he doesn't believe it. My friends, my best friends,
when I was buried alive, they didn't think I was really doing it.
They thought it was a tray. Right. So, so he, he asked me, he's like,
there's was that really you?
Because they said that you were a double of yourself and you were switching.
And I was like, Eddie, but you looked at me like, how,
if I have a twin brother, like, where is that identical twin brother. And why,
why would I switch up? So anyway, so back to the, um, back to the,
but I get to 55 hours. So I'm looking around and I need the time.
So I go like this, like, what time is it? And the guy goes
4 0 2. Yeah, too. So I'm like, okay,
that means we have like another six hours or whatever it is, right. By the way,
my time estimations are. So I'm like, okay, wait.
Or it might've been two of them. Wait, wait, wait. And I wait. And I'm indoors.
It's hard. I'm like, things are moving. Everything's weird. Spiders walking up.
People are like sitting in the ice from waiting, waiting.
Voices are talking to me and I'm talking back to right. But I'm waiting,
I'm waiting.
And I wait for like a few hours before I ask anybody the time again.
And I see somebody and I'm like
the guy and the guy goes.
Okay, 4 0 3.
Oh no. And that's when it.
All crashed. Yeah. It was like, when that, when I,
that connection and then the hallucinations were just rampant in my eyes were
all crazy when the drill was when the chainsaw was coming through.
I tried to grab her.
Yeah. So see, look at that. Oh, you're gone.
Okay. But sudden,
but now that I've learned that sleep deprivation is one of
the most amazing ways.
If it's controlled to go to another place it's like that.
No, but I want to get to that. But before we get to that, like,
while you're in there, what are you doing? Occupy your mind? Like, how are you,
did you have, were you using meditation where you just thinking,
were you just winging it? Like so, okay.
So for some of them, what I do a big P first of all, yeah.
A lot of things you get that you have free time to think like there's no phones,
no distractions. So aside from the physical, but,
but the one thing that I use with everything is kind of like a breakdown of
numbers. I'm like, okay, this much I have to get to this point.
Then when I get to this. But even when I run on a treadmill, Mike, okay.
I have to get to this point, which means, let me get to the halfway point.
And I'll consider that when I'm holding my breath, I do same thing. Like, okay,
I need to get to 15 minutes. So let me get to seven and I'll start at seven.
Then at seven, I'm like, okay, I'm at seven left.
I have to get to another three and a half and three and a half.
And then what I always do is whenever I'm training, I always go past it.
So it's the same thing. So like when I'm running a treadmill, I'm like,
if I have to do, let's say like, you know, 3.1, whatever it is,
I set that as my target.
But then I always go like another half a mile past it because I won't,
you can't quit before because then they'll be in the mindset that okay,
I can stop before. So like anything that I do, I use numbers to get there.
I get halfway. And then I push the Gulf further every single time,
no matter what, which is. So it's a mathematical system.
Right? So you're, you're,
you don't necessarily have any sort of meditative techniques.
You're just concentrating on the numbers.
For breath holding all the time.
Every time I do a breath hold now the ice was kind of,
there was like a breathing thing and I didn't really know much about it back
then, but I was like more like fighting it. Like, what is it.
Like on your ankles or your knees and your back, everything swells.
Up like a demon really bad and all that stuff.
And the pain is excruciating and unbearable, but yeah, it's, I mean,
you're waiting and.
You didn't have any residual effects of that.
Just my ankles and legs were really swollen so.
Longer than that, but yeah. Yeah.
Now, has anybody ever tried to break that?
Uh, I don't know. I hope not.
Not cause I w I don't care about how I just don't want anybody to hurt
themselves.
Imagine, like, someone does something so high profile, like you did that,
that people would be like, Hmm, I'm going to try that.
I mean, I think it's too weird. So people aren't really like, oh, I want to do,
but there's billions of people.
I would imagine that someone would step in and try to emulate that.
Obviously it was. So I pray.
Not. And that's why I pray. My daughter never becomes a magician,
even though she's so amazing at it, because if she started doing these things,
I like, if she's going to bump her knee of like, I have a heart attack.
That's the problem with being a parent, right?
The things that make you amazing are your ability to overcome adversity.
And then you shelter your children from adversity. You know,
it's all my favorite people are all,
they all came from a very tumultuous childhood.
They all came from like turmoil. And no one wants that for their child.
You want to protect your children weird. Okay.